I still harbored in the back of my mind that I could go back to the family farm when I got out of service, but the avenue wasn't really there.
My brother thought he wanted to go back, and Dr. Coonsie had, I suppose you could say, indoctrinated me or about half convinced me that maybe graduate study was the thing that I should do, and so I
I thought I'd leave the farm to my brother and I would go the graduate student route because I didn't think that route was open to him.
And I guess I must have developed some liking for the research arena.
Describe this man Kunze and his strengths and his area of specialization.
Dr. Kunze was a soil mineralogist.
By training, he grew up on a farm in Central Texas, near LaGrange at Warda, where he is today, incidentally, farming.
German parents.
I don't think I ever met his parents, but I understand his mother spoke very broken English.
Much preferred to speak in German than English.
Attended a church there where they had Lutheran services in German periodically.
Kunze was a man, I would say, of the highest integrity, very set in his ways, known for being pretty Scotch, a real stickler in research for precision and work, for checking and double checking everything you did, making sure if you said something in writing that you could back it up.
always always eager to try to explain the unexplainable in work a hard worker himself and expected hard work from those around him but a but a very kind man a very generous one in in relationships and worked well with students worked very well with students i'd say with most students i i
If you were, quote, if you were a conformist student, he worked well with you.
If you function more as a non-conformist, I think you'd have trouble.
Who were the other individuals during your undergraduate years that, looking back, you can tell had a strong influence on your life?
Well, T.E.
McAfee was an influential person.
I had him in one or two or three courses.
Dr. Mogford taught a cotton production course.
I had a lot of respect for him.
I had a fellow named
Henry Hadley that I took plant genetics from that I thought was an outstanding teacher and, but probably I interacted so much more with those, with those faculty members in agronomy.
They probably, Hank Foth,
T.E.
McAfee, Hampton in a way, I always say you learn about as much from a lot of folks about what not, how not to do some things as how to do.
But I felt a lot of respect for most of those faculty.
Dick Potts was around.
I don't think I ever had a course from Dick.
I knew him so well later, but I don't remember him as impacting me at the undergraduate level.
I'd have to say probably the major people in there were Folth and McAfee and Hampton and Coonsie.
Of course I, although I didn't have classes from them, at that time I got to know Morris Bloodworth and J.B.
Page because they were both faculty in that area.
I never really had a lot of personal interaction with Page.
I just, I knew him.
You always saw him at, Coonsie had an air-conditioned lab.
in the old red brick building where we worked is because of the x-ray.
He had x-ray diffraction equipment, and when he got that equipment, he managed to get the lab air conditioned.
So that was where everybody came in the afternoon for their afternoon coffee or Cokes, and they always flipped to see who'd buy the Cokes.
And they all loved to stick Coonsie with the drinks because he cried so loud.
I mean, he just moaned and groaned to high heaven.
And Page, I don't know whether he was lucky or crooked or what, but he almost never seemed to get stuck with buying the drinks.
And poor Coonsie seemed to get stuck almost every other day.
Incidentally, during those days in that old red brick building there was a particular statue secretary in entomology and the mailboxes were over in the agronomy building.
And they'd walk from entomology over to the agronomy building and check the mail.
She made the trip about the same time every day.
And we joked sometime and said if the old red brick building had been a ship, it would lift and tilt to that side at that time every day because nobody wanted to miss that trip she made to that.
To see that attractive.
To see the mail.
To get the mail.
As you look back now in those undergraduate years, what was A&M doing well?
Hmm.
Just beginning, just beginning to establish, I guess, a reputation for research in agricultural areas.
Recruiting, beginning to recruit some really good people and to set a very different tone, but probably to say what they were doing well.
I think it was mainly just teaching people how to
perhaps respect other people and take the attitude that things are doable, you can do.
I thought it had a can-do attitude then, one level of friendliness, a lack of snootiness, and an attitude that we get things done.
You finish from here, you can do things.
The typical Aggie student, describe the typical A&M student, other than being male, we know they were,
Where were they from?
What were their attitudes?
How diverse was the student body?
Well, as I indicated earlier, I think it was certainly diverse in relation to my own personal background, but it probably wasn't as diverse as it could have been in terms of reflecting the population.
Obviously, it was an all-white, all-male
And I suppose a lot of, at that time, a relatively high percentage of students came from rural backgrounds, small schools, modest incomes.
However, there were, in those days, there were a lot of students from Houston and Beaumont and city people.
But I think that the,
The attitude was probably still pretty much that of an agrarian kind of attitude, particularly in the College of Agriculture in Los Angeles.
Now, college business may be different.
Three of my good friends were accounting majors that were seniors.
One of them came from San Antonio.
One came from
New Boston, Texas, small town, but the other came from Houston.
And as a matter of fact, I think it was the fourth county who was also from Houston.
So, you know, we were city kids and others, I guess overwhelmingly Protestant, although quite a few Roman Catholics within our group.
Were there some Jewish students?
Very few.
If we had, I don't believe, I don't believe I ever had a Jewish student in my outfit.
Did, were there students?
Hispanics, there were a lot of Hispanics, but no blacks, of course.
Were there student nicknames in that era?
Yeah.
What was yours?
Pogo.
Because?
The comic strip.
Okay.
Somebody hung it on me.
It did not have, it wasn't a pogo stick.
No, it was just pogo.
Were there some other good nicknames in your outfit or among your acquaintances you recall?
Golly.
Well, my roommate was called Mother most of the time.
Kent Mahone.
We called him Mother Mahone.
Let's see.
Trim.
Oh, we had a, there was a guy named Alton Breedlove that we called Breedy a lot of the times.
What was he called?
I brought a nickname of Bubba with him.
We called him Bubba.
We had one, when we were seniors, we had one that transferred to us from one of the,
Calvary outfit, so naturally he was called Jock.
The Hispanics, do you remember any nicknames for them?
I don't.
Except Melvin Maltz has told me that all the Jewish students that he knew of, including him, that their nickname was Jew Boy.
And he said, we didn't take it as a put down, and we don't think
It was intended as a put down.
Today, that would be very politically unacceptable.
I never, I never heard any, I don't believe I ever heard a student referred to as you boy.
But I, I might not have, as I say, might not have had any.
Were there, were there any international students that you were aware of?
Graduate students?
I didn't know.
Let's see.
I don't believe I knew of any international students with us in the Corps.
And there weren't many out-of-state students, were there?
Comparatively few.
When I came down as a freshman, I mentioned that fellow from Colorado.
It seemed like we had one or two maybe from Louisiana.
But no, there were very few.
It was a very regional university.
All right, back to the way A&M did things.
In hindsight, were there any mistakes that you think A&M was making in those undergraduate days for you?
Well, it should have been, the course should have been optional, I think.
I think with the end of World War II, probably the sooner we could get integrated racially and sexually, the better it would be.
Did anybody ever talk about any of that?
Did you remember?
Probably if we had, it would have been in a very negative way.
It would be the death knell of the university or something.
No, I don't remember much conversation about it at all, to tell you the truth.
When you bought that ring that you're wearing, what were your feelings?
I'd earned it.
I guess.
That's what I thought.
Finally.
At last.
Do you remember what it cost?
I want to say $45.
That was about one-twentieth of what it cost me to be here a year or more.
Yeah, about one-twentieth of what it cost me.
So a year cost about how much?
Eight, eight, nine hundred dollars.
And where did you get that money?
Well, I worked from the time I was down here.
I worked in Coonsie's lab and started at
I think I started at 65 cents an hour.
Might not have been that much.
I remember before I graduated I got to 75.
So I worked 10 to 20 hours a week.
my dad of course i worked in summertime every summer between freshman sophomore sophomore and junior between junior and senior years i had to take six weeks out for summer camp but other than that i worked on the farm did he so dad would give me uh basically what i needed i guess you'd say did he
pay you a wage for that summer?
No, no.
That was true in my family, too.
No, no, I never got paid by my dad.
Mine was.
Well, I got paid many times over, but not on an hourly basis.
He was saying, when you sit down at the table.
Yeah, you're getting yours.
But we were, my dad was a good farmer.
And even through those drought years, of course it wasn't as dry in northeast Texas as it was in a lot of places, but through those drought years he managed to come out.
But I'll have to say I think I truly was frugal down here.
I did not waste any money.
I believe that four years, certainly for the four years, the cost averaged less than $800 a year if you take the four years.
I'm sure the senior year was more because taking those weekend trips to San Antonio and things were, that showed I was coming up in the standard living world.
Let's see, we have mentioned bonfire.
Describe the Aggie bonfire in your student years.
Now, I've had a lot of time to think about that in recent weeks and months.
It was on the drill field in those years.
We had to work on it as freshmen and sophomores.
I don't remember being particularly active as a senior.
I was probably out there little.
I was in the cut area, but I don't remember going to cut areas very much.
I don't remember these all-night pushes to build it.
I know we had guard rings around it because there are always the stories, you know, about the Texas guy that tried to drop a barrel of gasoline or something on it and set it off and that kind of thing.
So you kind of expected, quote, the T-CIPs to make a raid on at any time.
So we had to pull guard duty around it.
I don't ever remember being on a stack in construction.
I do remember hauling logs all over the place.
And it was only logs in your day?
Because before World War II, it was trash.
No, it was logs.
About how many stacks high was it?
Do you remember?
I don't know, but I can tell you for sure it was a lot fatter at the bottom than they are today.
and we didn't have any of that power equipment to hoist the logs out there.
You hoisted them with a rope, and you pushed them up with sticks around the side, and you hoisted them with a rope to get them to the higher levels, and the ropes that stabilized that thing, you'd have three or four out, but when you were working on it, you had to have anywhere from 20 to 40 people on a rope, and you had people directing
how to pull this way or that way to keep the pole straight.
So it took a lot of manpower just to keep the stack stabilized where you could push things up to it.
And you said rope, not cable.
I think it was rope.
What I remember being is rope.
Because we just had our hands on it.
And y'all...
As human beings, you lifted the logs and put them on the truck.
That's absolutely right.
And you got them off the truck and so forth.
Was the terminology already there, red pots and that sort of thing?
Don't remember that.
May have been, but I don't remember that.
Somehow we could identify, usually we had outfit markers of some kind on our uniforms or suits, and I suppose it would always be so you could recognize junior, senior, sophomores, and freshmen by some mechanism, if not the uniform, but they probably wore fatigues and had their insignia or something on them.
Do you remember any injuries connected with Bonfire?
No, nothing, oh, I mean, people getting hand-skinned and, you know.
But no broken legs, no?
No, no, I don't, I don't remember that.
And what kind of chainsaws did y'all use?
Never heard of one.
You cut them down with axes.
Yeah, yeah.
And I presume there must have been some city boys that didn't know anything about using an axe.
I think, well now I suppose, I can't remember specific instances, but I know, I know that during those years there must have been stories of people hitting themselves in the foot with an axe and that kind of thing.
I think that happened pretty, fairly often.
Although they tried to coach people on using tools like that.
And as I said, I don't, I was not often out in the cutting area and I never did any, I can't remember personally doing any cutting.
I can remember hoisting the logs out of there.
But I probably wasn't all that gung-ho to be the, quote, to try to be.
I wasn't a leader in those days, anyway, period.
I wasn't a leader.
I'd have been more of a follower, and I'd have been one to take a toll to grab that stick over there with somebody else and help them lift the log on the truck, that kind of thing.
Let's see, a goofy one that just popped in my brain.
Earl Rudder one day asked me, when did the students quit shooting at Prexy's Moon?
Did you ever hear that?
Do you know what Prexy's Moon was?
There used to be, up on top of the academic building dome, a light fixture holder that went up and then curved and had a big light bulb hanging down right over it.
And he said when he was a student, it was really something.
to shoot it, and he said, therefore, there were some holes in the dome in his day.
Of course, nobody ever knew who ever shot at it.
I don't think it was up there.
And apparently in his day, the president was called Prexy, because I remember he two or three times referred to himself as Prexy, and we faculty members thought that was goofy.
We'd never heard such a word.
I don't remember hearing that word either.
And I was never in them.
Believe me, I was never in them.
But getting down in the steam tunnels was a thing.
Oh, you never did go in them?
I've never been in them.
But I've heard tales about going into steam tunnels.
What was supposedly down there?
Well, it was a way to get around the campus without being seen, I thought, was the main advantage of the steam tunnel.
So the steam tunnel apparently was most likely related to some kind of mischief.
Oh, yeah.
Good book.
Yeah, yeah, it was mischief for sure.
Mischief for sure.
And it's in the book on Bryant, but I clearly remember that happening once while I was here, the guys bringing
into one of the dorms, I think it was in a jock dorm, but brought the prostitute in in a big bag over their shoulder.
Oh really?
Yeah, oh yeah.
Now what did you and your buddies think about the athletes when you were an undergraduate?
Were they real students or were they getting an easy deal academically?
Some of them, you know, some of them were in the Corps outfits with the rest of us, although didn't many of them live with us.
I guess they still lived in Hart Hall until Henderson was built.
And that was in the Barrett Bryant era.
Of course Hart Hall was so centrally located and everybody walked by it and saw it and clearly they had less requirements put on them as far as being militarily correct and that kind of thing.
And you could get a
condom full of water on your head if you walk too close to Art Hall.
That was the dangerous thing to do.
We knew that.
They were just, yeah, they were viewed as having it, I don't know about as far as academics are concerned, but they were certainly viewed as having it easy.
No discipline as far as military.
Were there supposedly some courses that only athletes took where they got easy grades?
I don't know that.
I've never heard of any.
I know Bob Smith took, I've heard all those stories about how many times Bob Smith took the beginning biology kind of stuff.
Were there some courses that were legendary, while you were a student, that were legendary for being a little easier for anybody to get a grade?
Or were there some grade point courses?
I'm sure there were.
It's hard for me to identify one.
Plant Physiology, which a lot of us had to take and which Wayne Hall taught at the time was a, subject matter wise, pretty tough course, but it was pretty well known that Wayne had four multiple choice tests and if you got all four of them,
the normal expectation is you were going to get one of the four, so you just memorized those four tests.
He, the semester I took it, he, of course I had the four tests, everybody else did too, but the semester I took it, he took one of those four tests and doctored it in very subtle kinds of ways.
And it, literally, it had gotten so bad that people would just go in and read the first
question or two and say, oh, this is, you know, this is that test and they just mark right down through the exam and hand it in.
He'd usually change
Well, I don't remember, 40, 50-question test.
There might be two or three changed on the whole exam, but they'd just mark it and walk out.
Well, a lot of them did that this time and, of course, he caught a bunch of people flat-footed and didn't realize it.
A lot of them absolutely didn't realize it until they started handing the papers back.
I can almost still see Wayne Hall handing the papers back.
He never said a word about it.
Not one word did he ever mention, but you could see the kind of the slyest grin on his face when he was handing these papers back.
Yeah, I got you guys.
And, of course, they started calling me a blankety-blanko for changing up his exam.
So that was an easy class.
I mean, the subject matter was not easy at all.
It was easy.
Now, were you and your buddies aware of his eminence as a scholar when y'all were taking his courses?
Not really.
No, not.
I knew he was a very polished man and spoke with that clearly clipped voice that he had.
So I think you'd easily recognize him as knowing his stuff, but I don't think
Were there some legendary tough courses that most folks had to take?
Organic chemistry, I suppose, was known to be tough.
Well, even in those days, we had cowboy organic, which is step and a half hedges taught.
And the, when I, now this was when I was a graduate student and I took the
the tough organic at that time called 301 and 302.
And oh my goodness, I had his name.
He was a little Jewish prophet, Sarkov?
Rakov, Rakov, that's it.
Rakoff.
Good teacher.
Absolutely outstanding teacher.
Had a lot of little sayings about him.
He'd come in and say he had a dog, knew more organic chemistry than we did, kind of thing.
But he was an excellent prof, but a tough, demanding prof.
Now, I've heard others talk about Square Root Jackson, Cube Root Kent, the engineering math courses.
Didn't have any of those.
I've tried to remember.
I think I had a man named Hall in calculus.
And I had a, golly, I should remember the man I had trig or plane analytics from, Hoverack.
He was a good teacher.
What about Dr. Dan, the grade point man, Dan Russell, rural sociology?
Didn't have him.
I had, in rural soc, I had a man that still lives here in town.
Barden?
Barden Nelson.
Describe him as a teacher.
Well, a good man, knew his discipline pretty well, but
Pretty easy to catch a nap in there.
What have we left out about your student days?
What have we not touched on that we should have?
Well, that's a good question.
Let's see, were there any sad moments?
I can't think of any tragedies, fires, bombings,
Oh, while I was a freshman, that's when they drowned out, I mean, they flooded the old military science building on Military Walk.
I think they had water to the windowsills in that thing.
How?
I don't, well, I don't know all the particulars.
I guess it pulled all of the commode heads, and I've forgotten what precipitated that.
But I think they vacated that building.
Was it supposedly a prank?
Well, it was certainly a prank, but I think it must have been... And it went a lot worse than they... It went worse than a prank.
Oh, it was a major, major flood.
I think that happened when I was a freshman, but I'm not sure about that.
That building is about, well, almost where the flagpole is now, but out bordered on the military walk there.
Seems to me like it was maybe next to the...
Where the Y, no, it'd be one over from them.
Yeah, it'd be the next, it's on military walks, it'd be the next one over from the Y. Any world or national events that you remember where you were when you heard the news that?
Oh my goodness.
See, for me... Oh, I'd have to see what might have happened in those years.
Not a Kennedy assassination, not a Pearl Harbor, not an A-bomb.
Korea's over, so not that.
No assassination of a president or attempted.
They were relatively good times, I guess you'd say, other than the drought in Texas was a very negative.
It had a lot of people on the ropes.
I think there were relatively good economic times coming out of a horrible decade before.
What are the qualities of being an Aggie?
Well, I guess I always like to say that
Aggies know how to accept other people for the traits they bring to the table with them.
Hopefully we do.
That by and large I think they are recognize the spiritual side of their existence in this old planet.
In some sense, I know a lot of, they talk about us sometimes being racist or whatever kinds of terms you can have, but I've really always found, at least when I was here as a student, and in most instances, later experiences, that people tend to be judged for the qualities they bring to the table with them.
and not on the basis of who their mom and dad was or how much money they have or what kind of clothes they wear.
It's basically who they are as a person that people are interested in them as a person.
The core experience is one of helping you learn how to control your emotions
Probably helping you learn how to have some really deep emotions about some things, but also how to control emotions.
And I think just a can-do spirit that, to me, seems to pervade.
I think that's, as I talk to potential graduate students or things today, I try to say I think it's a friendly environment.
I think it's a can-do environment.
I think you'll be accepted for who you are and how you perform in this setting.
And hopefully you leave with the confidence of being able to perform, to lead.
Are there some events during an Aggie undergraduate experience that helped to create this Aggie spirit?
And if so, what are those events?
Well, some of them are not so true anymore as they were in those days, but eating as a family in the mess hall, day in and day out, is probably one.
The camaraderie that, and this could be any place, but the camaraderie that develops in classes, particularly in a setting where so many classes have a laboratory component, there's a lot of close person-to-person interaction, cooperation, even before, quote, learning as a team became a thing to do.
You did a lot of it.
If you function in laboratories, there is a lot of
kind of team, you help me, I'll help you learn how to do things.
And the traditions, of course, of silver taps and muster and yell practice and bonfire, all of those kind of contribute to building that sense of community.
And the last question.
What feelings do you have in your heart for Texas A&M?
Well, I guess I try to express that sometimes to students in my class and saying that I know that Texas A&M is not the best university in the country.
I don't think that.
There are a lot of good universities.
I think it is truly a unique one and I like it for a lot of that uniqueness.
It's on the whole a conservative place and probably personally I lean more on the liberal side than the conservative and yet I'm very comfortable in that environment.
There's a strong sense of belonging, of being loyal to each other.
I think the way former students contribute, for example, and part of those things is indicative of that.
You just, it's, I think it's hard, and I've observed it for years in graduate students that come here.
Many, many of our graduate students leave here having received undergraduate degrees at Wisconsin or Purdue or
a lot of other places that are very, very fine institutions.
You might say, as a university, a stronger university of ours, if you're going to judge it as a library, for example, they're a heck of a lot stronger than ours.
And yet, and yet, many of those people leaving here, and I'm absolutely convinced if you ask them what university had the greatest impact on their lives is Texas A&M.
And that's where they're real,
loyalty is today even if they only got the doctorate degree here.
And I see the same thing in faculty who come and join us who may have degrees from a lot of other places.
There's a maroon pickup out there in the parking lot right now that belongs to a graduate of Texas Tech who's a member of our faculty.
But, and I don't think he would hesitate a minute to tell you that being a faculty member here
has impacted his life far more than, and he was a good Red Raider and did a lot of good things at Red Raider, and yet there's just that almost intangible about this place that kind of creeps in on people.
You're probably one of those people yourself that have been very significantly impacted here, even though all your education's in another,
So it's hard to put your finger on exactly what it is.
I can't do it very well.
I think it's openness.
I think it's friendliness.
I think it's a can-do attitude.
I think it's a feeling for others.
I think it's at some level, yeah, a concern to be something and do something that makes the world better for everybody.
That's a good ending.